Docs: Add GitHub Actions as a supported language (#19190)
github/codeql: docs/codeql/codeql-language-guides/codeql-library-for-actions.rst

.. _codeql-library-for-actions:

CodeQL library for GitHub Actions
=======================

> When you're analyzing GitHub Actions workflows and action metadata files, you can make use of the large collection of classes in the CodeQL library for GitHub Actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're analyzing GitHub Actions workflows and Action metadata files, you can make use of the large collection of classes in the CodeQL library for GitHub Actions.
```

we are capitalizing below, so suggesting here too.

Author: Makes sense. I was trying to distinguish between Actions (product) and Action (component).

     - Gets the enclosing composite action, if any. Applies only to elements within an action metadata file.
   * - ``getLocation()``
     - Gets the location of this node.
   * - ``getAChildNode()``
     - Gets a child node of this node.
   * - ``getParentNode()``
     - Gets the parent of this `AstNode`, if this node is not a root node.
   * - ``getATriggerEvent()``
     - Gets an Actions trigger event that can start the enclosing Actions workflow, if any.
     

Workflows
~~~~~~~

A workflow is a configurable automated process made up of one or more jobs,
defined in a workflow YAML file in the `.github/workflows` directory of a GitHub repository.

In the CodeQL AST library, a `Workflow` is an `AstNode` representing the mapping at the top level of an Actions YAML workflow file.

See the GitHub Actions documentation on `workflows <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/about-workflows>`__ and `workflow syntax <https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions>`__ for more information.

.. list-table:: Callable classes
   :header-rows: 1

   * - CodeQL class
     - Description and selected predicates
   * - ``Workflow``

>      -  An Actions workflow. This is a mapping at the top level of an Actions YAML workflow file. See https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Make a complete sentence.

```suggestion
     -  Models an Actions workflow and is a mapping at the top level of an Actions YAML workflow file. See https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions.
```

        - `getAJob()` - Gets a job within the `jobs` mapping of this workflow.
        - `getEnv()` - Gets an `env` mapping within this workflow declaring workflow-level environment variables, if any.

>         - `getJob(string jobId)` - Gets a job within the `jobs` mapping of this workflow with the given job ID.

Reviewer: For my education. Is there a preference in having this defined as a function (`getJob("potato")`) rather than a relation (`getJob().getName() = "potato"`) in the query?

Author: Without taking the string as a parameter, to reason about the specific job by that name, it would look something like
```ql
exists(Job job |
  job = workflow.getAJob() and
  job.getName() = "potato" and
  // whatever else you want to say about the job
)
```

One can also do
```ql
workflow.getAJob().getName() = "potato"
```
but that only asserts that there is _a job_ with this name, it doesn't let you perform any further reasoning involving that specific job.
